Tags: #standard 

### [Cybersecurity Guidebook for Cyber-Physical Vehicle Systems](https://www.sae.org/standards/content/j3061_201601/)

This recommended practice provides guidance on vehicle Cybersecurity and was created based off of, and expanded on from, existing practices which are being implemented or reported in industry, government and conference papers. The best practices are intended to be flexible, pragmatic, and adaptable in their further application to the vehicle industry as well as to other cyber-physical vehicle systems (e.g., commercial and military vehicles, trucks, busses). Other proprietary Cybersecurity development processes and standards may have been established to support a specific manufacturer’s development processes, and may not be comprehensively represented in this document, however, information contained in this document may help refine existing in-house processes, methods, etc.

This recommended practice establishes a set of high-level guiding principles for **_Cybersecurity_** as it relates to **_cyber-physical vehicle systems_**. This includes:

-   Defining a complete lifecycle process framework that can be tailored and utilized within each organization’s development processes to incorporate Cybersecurity into cyber-physical vehicle systems from concept phase through production, operation, service, and decommissioning.
    
-   Providing information on some common existing tools and methods used when designing, verifying and validating **_cyber-physical vehicle systems._**
    
-   Providing basic guiding principles on Cybersecurity for vehicle systems.
    
-   Providing the foundation for further standards development activities in vehicle Cybersecurity.
    

The appendices provide additional information to be aware of and may be used in helping improve Cybersecurity of feature designs. Much of the information identified in the appendices is available but some experts may not be aware of all of the available information. Therefore, the appendices provide an overview of some of this information to provide further guidance on building Cybersecurity into cyber-physical vehicle systems. The objective of the overviews is to encourage research to help improve designs and identify methods and tools for applying a company’s internal Cybersecurity process.